.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.\" "verbatim" environment (from strace.1)
.de CW
.sp
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de CE
.ft
.fi
.sp
..
.TH  install-menu 1 "20 October 1998" "Debian Project" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
install-menu \- Used internally by the Debian menu system. It is a
program to facilitate the generation of menu-related startup files for
the various window managers etc.

.SH DESCRIPTION
When 
.B update-menus(1)
reads the menu-information, for each installed window manager it will
run /etc/menu-methods/wm. Update-menus sends  all menu-information of all
installed packages to the stdin of those programmes, and it is the
task of each respective /etc/menu-methods/wm to generate the
window-manager startup files that contain the Debian Menu structure.
.B install-menu
is written to facilitate this task. For more information, see the menu
documentation (see below).

.SH BUGS
Once processing starts, and translation in various languages is
requested, error messages will be printed in a `random' language. This
is due to the fact that it doesn't seem possible to locally change the
language with GNU gettext. Fortunately nearly all errors are reported
before processing starts, so usually the messages are reported in the
current LANGUAGE.

.SH COPYING
.B install-menu
is distributed under the GNU General Public License.
(GPL 2.0 or greater).
.SH AUTHOR
joost witteveen
.RI <joostje@debian.org>
less
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR update-menus (1),
.BR menufile (5),
.BR /usr/share/doc/menu/html

