.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH MENUFILE 5 "File Formats" "DEBIAN"
.SH NAME
menufile \- entry in the Debian menu system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/.menu/*
.PP
.B /etc/menu/*
.PP
.B /usr/lib/menu/*
.PP
.B /usr/share/menu/*
.PP
.B /usr/share/menu/default/*
.SH DESCRIPTION
Menu files add entries to the Debian menu system. The system administrator can
place menu files in /etc/menu/ to override menu files that packages add to
/usr/share/menu/ .  The user can place menu files in ~/.menu/ to override all
other menu files.
.PP
Please read the Debian menu manual available in /usr/share/doc/menu/html 
for the complete specification of menu files.
.PP
The menu files are usually named after the Debian package that
contains the programs listed in them. In it, you can list several
"menu entries" that specify a specific item in the menu
structure. Each menu entry specifies which packages it depends on; if
that package are not installed, the menu entry will be ignored by
\fBupdate-menus(1)\fP.
(In a menu entry you can specify pseudo-packages that start
with "local."; update-menus will always use those menu entries).
If you wish to remove an item from the menu entirely, make an empty menu
file with the same name as the file you want to override.
.SH Examples
Dosemu could install the following menu file as /usr/share/menu/dosemu:
.PP                                                              
 ?package(dosemu):needs="text" section="Apps/Emulators" title="Dosemu" command="dosemu"
 ?package(dosemu):needs="x11" section="Apps/Emulators" title="Dosemu" command="xdos"
.PP
The system administrator wants to override this file to change how dosemu is
run, so /etc/menu/dosemu is created:
.PP
 ?package(dosemu):needs="text" section="Apps/Emulators" title="Dosemu" command="dosemu -A"
 ?package(dosemu):needs="x11"  section="Apps/Emulators" title="Dosemu" command="xdos -A"
.PP
A user does not want Dosemu to appear in the menus at all, so the user creates
an empty file named \fI~/.menu/dosemu\fP.
.SH FORMAT
A menu file consists of 0 or more lines of the following format:
.RS
.PP
\fB?package(package-name):var1=value1 var2=value2 \fR ...
.TP
needs=
Specify what kind of environment the program require. This variable must be
defined, and should be one of the following:
.RS
.TP
needs="text"
Program requires a terminal
.TP
needs="x11"
Program requires a X server
.TP
needs="vc"
Program requires a Linux console (i.e.: svgalib programs)
.TP
needs="wm"
The program is a window manager.
.TP
needs="fvwmmodule"
The program is a fvwm compatible module.
.RE
.TP
section
The section in which the menu entry should appear. See \fBMENU LAYOUT\fP for
preferred section names.
.RS
.RE
.TP
icon
An icon for this menu entry. If no icon is available, just don't
define this. 
.TP
title
The title of the program that will appear on the menus. Keep it short.
If two menu entries share the same title and section, the one that
bests fits the available display will be used. So in the example above
with two menu entries that both have the menu id "title", if X is
available, the X11 one will be used; otherwise the text one will be used.
Must be defined.
.TP
command
The command to be executed when this menu entry is selected.
.TP
hints
A comma-separated list of hints on how grouping menu entries; see the manual.
.RE
.SH "MENU LAYOUT"
The \fBauthoritative\fP list of Debian's menu structure is maintained in the
Debian Menu sub-policy document which is part of the Debian Policy package. The
menu structure below is included only for convenience. Please do not put your
packages into any other sections. 

Use `/' to separate sub-menu names, for example, "Apps/Editors" or
"Games/Arcade".
.PP
 \fIApps\fP            -- Normal apps
   \fIDatabases\fP     -- Interactive database programs
   \fIEditors\fP       -- Editors
   \fIEmulators\fP     -- dosemu, ...
   \fIEducation\fP     -- Educational and training programs
   \fIGraphics\fP      -- Image manipulation 
   \fIHamradio\fP      -- Anything relating to ham radio.
   \fIMath\fP          -- Math apps: gnuplot, octave, oleo, ...
   \fINet\fP           -- mail, news, web, irc, etc
   \fIProgramming\fP   -- Debuggers, etc
   \fIScience\fP       -- Scientific programs
   \fITools\fP         -- Other tools: xclock, xmag, xman, ...
   \fITechnical\fP     -- Technical stuff
   \fIText\fP          -- Text oriented tools other than editors
   \fIShells\fP        -- Different shells, like bash, zsh, ...
   \fISound\fP         -- Sound players and editors
   \fIViewers\fP       -- Picture viewers, gs, ...
   \fISystem\fP        -- System administration and monitoring
 \fIGames\fP           -- Games and recreations
   \fIAdventure\fP     -- Walk around virtual space, zork, MOO's, ...
   \fIArcade\fP        -- Any game where reflexes count
   \fIBoard\fP         -- Like: Gnuchess, pente, gnugo
   \fICard\fP          -- solitaire, etc
   \fIPuzzles\fP       -- Stuff from xpuzzles, ...
   \fISports\fP        -- Games derived from "real world" sports
   \fIStrategy\fP      -- Games involving long term strategic thinking
   \fISimulation\fP    -- Flight simulators, etc
   \fITetris-like\fP   -- Games involving falling blocks
   \fIToys\fP          -- oneko, xeyes, etc
 \fIScreen\fP          -- Programs that affect the whole screen
   \fILock\fP          -- xlock, etc
   \fISave\fP          -- Screen savers
   \fIRoot-window\fP   -- Things that fill the root window
 \fIWindow-managers\fP -- Switch between fvwm, afterstep, ...
   \fIModules\fP       -- fvwm modules, etc 
 \fIXShells\fP         -- Shells (like xterm, rxvt, ...)
.SH NOTES
If you want to specify an icon or hotkey for a sub-menu (for example,
the Editors sub-menu), just use the same syntax but leave the command
empty:

?package(mypackage):needs="X11" section="Apps" icon="icon.xpm" hotkey="E" title="Editors"

.PP
Whenever any menu files are changed, you must run
.BR update-menus (1)
.SH FILES
(Earlier listed files override later files with the same names.)
.PP
.I ~/.menu/*
.RS
Menu files added by the user.
.RE
.I /etc/menu/*
.RS
Menu files added by the system administrator.
.RE
.I /usr/lib/menu/*
.RS
Architecture-dependant menu files provided by other Debian packages.
.RE
.I /usr/share/menu/*
.RS
Architecture-independant menu files provided by other Debian packages.
.RE
.I /usr/share/menu/default/*
.RS
Menu files provided by the menu package.
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Joost Witteveen <joostje@debian.org>, based on work by 
Lars Wirzenius <liw@iki.fi>. Now maintained by 
Bill Allombert <ballombe@debian.org>.
.PP
(Man page by Joey Hess, <joeyh@debian.org>)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR update-menus (1),
.BR /usr/share/doc/menu/html/index.html
