.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH  su\-to\-root 1 "20 October 1998" "Debian Project" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
su\-to\-root \- A simple script to give an `interactive' front-end to su.
It can be used in menu entry commands to ask for the root password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B su\-to\-root [\-X] [\-p <user>] \-c <command>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Most menu entries simply start an editor or a game or whatever. But
some menu entries would like to give the user the ability to change
important settings in the system, that require root privileges. 
\fBsu\-to\-root\fP can be used to ask for the root password.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-c <command>"
The command to execute as a string. This option is mandatory.
.IP "\-p <user>"
The name of the user to change to, instead of root.
.IP "\-X"
The command is a X11 program that does not require a terminal.
This is to be used with menu entries that declare needs="X11".
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP SU_TO_ROOT_X
Select the su-like program called by \fIsu\-to\-root \-X\fP.
Supported values are \fIgksu\fP, \fIkdesu\fP, \fIkde4su\fP, \fIktsuss\fP
and \fIsux\fP.
\fIkde4su\fP denotes the KDE4 version of \fBkdesu\fP.
.IP
When this variable is not set \fBsu\-to\-root\fP will currently try to use
\fIgksu\fP, \fIkdesu\fP, \fIkde4su\fP, \fIktsuss\fP, \fIsux\fP and the built-in
code, in that order with the exception that under a KDE session, \fIkdesu\fP
and \fIkde4su\fP are prefered over \fIgksu\fP.
.IP
The exact set of programs to try and their order is subject to change without
notice.
.IP SU_TO_ROOT_SU
Select the su-like program used in text mode.
Supported values are \fIsudo\fP, \fIsux\fP and \fIsu\fP, the later being
the default.
.SH FILES
.IP /etc/su\-to\-rootrc
.IP ~/.su\-to\-rootrc
\fBsu\-to\-root\fP will source these files at startup in this order. This lets
you define and modify the environment variables above without restarting your X
session.  
.SH COPYING
\fBsu\-to\-root\fP is distributed under the GNU General Public License.
(GPL 2.0 or greater).
.SH AUTHORS
Joost Witteveen <joostje@debian.org>
.P
X11 support by Morten Brix Pedersen and Bill Allombert
.RI <ballombe@debian.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBupdate\-menus\fP(1), \fBmenufile\fP(5), \fB/usr/share/doc/menu/html\fP
